  Keeping up with a field of knowledge can be challenging for anyone, particularly in the field of computer science which is still in its relative infancy.  These days any programmer has access to Google, but with nearly infinite data on the internet it can be difficult to find the specific answer to any question one might have.  Eventually, everyone will reach a point where they need to reach out for help.  At that point, posting questions online can be their best bet to solve their problem.  As simple as that might sound, the same question worded differently can make all the difference between finding a solution quickly and spending hours simmering in frustration.  Even though there may be "no dumb questions..." as the saying goes, there are certainly smart questions that can maximize the chance to find someone willing and able to solve that specific problem.
   In <a href="http://www.catb.org/esr/faqs/smart-questions.html">How to ask questions the smart way</a>, Eric Raymond

Try to find an answer by searching the archives of the forum or mailing list you plan to post to.
Try to find an answer by searching the Web.
Try to find an answer by reading the manual.
Try to find an answer by reading a FAQ.
Try to find an answer by inspection or experimentation.
Try to find an answer by asking a skilled friend.
If you're a programmer, try to find an answer by reading the source code.

Describe the symptoms of your problem or bug carefully and clearly.
Describe the environment in which it occurs (machine, OS, application, whatever).
  Provide your vendor's distribution and release level (e.g.: “Fedora Core 7”, “Slackware 9.1”, etc.).
Describe the research you did to try and understand the problem before you asked the question.
Describe the diagnostic steps you took to try and pin down the problem yourself before you asked the question.
Describe any possibly relevant recent changes in your computer or software configuration.
If at all possible, provide a way to reproduce the problem in a controlled environment.
