---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Assignment 3 
date: 2021-12-13
labels:
  -Final Project for ITM 352 Essay
---
Link to Project Demo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qYLvurZWhc0

Briefly describe your system (e.g. A store selling Pokemon game cards)
Krizel Tomines and I created a realistic ecommerse store that sells Boba, Smoothies, Scones and Ice cream. Each product has three flavors. We allow users to register, login, add items to their shopping cart, update their shopping cart and check out. When they check out, we email them an invoice of their order. We encrypt the users password and automatically log the user out after 30 minutes for security purposes.

Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?
No.

Describe what you are most proud of about your system:
I am most proud that the system can save information on users (names, email, username, password and order information) and keep it saved in thier sessions so we can personalize the page to the current user.

Describe what you are least happy with your system:
I would love to code the site to add a users profile picture. 

How was developing this assignment different than assignment #2?
This assignmnet took much more time than assignment two beucase of sessions and cookies as well as the navigation bar.

When you ran into a problem, what did you do to address it?
We tried to fix them, took a break, tried to fix them again and then sought help.

Describe what worked well in doing this assignment?
Krizel and I had really good time manganet skills on this project. We gave ourselves multiple days for tweaking and debugging after we finshed coding. This reduced stress and allowed us to really go through the project with a fine tooth comb.

Describe what did not work well in doing this assignment?
We had a lot of trouble with personalization at first.

What did you learn from doing this assignment?
I leared a lot about saving information using sessons and cookies. I also learned to keep track of variable names very carefully to make sure I am refering to the object that I intend to.

If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you change?
I would keep track of varibale names more precisly.

Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging
12.5% thinking about how to do something
12.5% writting the code
75% testing and debugging

Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown. Be sure to include an overview of what specifically you and your partners contributed (e.g. “I worked on the security and my partner 1 worked on personalization”)
50% Maggie
50%Krizel
 
I worked on cookies and sessions while Krizel worked a lot on the CSS. We both worked on the HTML files together and the server as well as fixing problems with our assignment 2.
