After completing the three BrowserHistory WOD’s, I felt proud to really create a webpage, even if it was a simple one. For me, it was one step into pushing myself into the programming world.

Starting off with the first WOD, this one required you to create an HTML document that focused on structuring content of four browsers, Firefox, Internet Explorer and Chrome. Within each browser title would list the history, a hyperlink to a website of a specific word along with the logo to match each respective browser. In addition, there was an introductory paragraph along with a table of contents that listed the browsers and when clicked, it would take you to the starting point of that specific browser. Overall, this WOD took me only one try of 21 minutes and 13 Seconds (SD). What I especially took out of this was remembering how to hyperlink text to another website which is useful when you need a reference for background information. This was also the struggling part for me since I did not know that you had to put an anchor tag followed by an href. And the simplest mistake I made was to always make sure the end anchor tag is after the word (or words) that you are trying hyperlink. Another thing that I got annoyed with was whenever I inserted the paragraphs, the paragraph would extend into one line entirely and not paste as an actual paragraph on multiple lines. It bothered me that I couldn’t see the end paragraph tag and would have to scroll right just to ensure in my head that its there. But to prevent that from happening, simply go to view at the top and click on toggle word wrap and that should do the trick! Other than that, the rest of the steps was repetition. As long as you knew where, what tag to insert and how to write out width and href, it becomes easy to complete the tasks at hand.  

The second WOD was also done in one try taking me 18 minutes (SD). If you have no clue how to write CSS, then you might take a while since its a matter of learning how to write the format, whether it be for font color, font and margins. For me, while doing the WOD, I used this link https://www.w3schools.com/Css/default.asp that got me through step 5. W3 is a really good site if you’re ever stuck on how to write certain things and especially when they give examples, I found it helpful to use as a reference to make sure your code works. Additionally, when it came to linking the CSS  the HTML page, I had to check with the screencast. I knew href=”style.css” but I didn’t think it was necessary to add a rel(relationship) since you were linking the html to a css. However rel is what defines the CSS as a stylesheet so make sure to include that in your code.
       
Lastly, I decided to do the third WOD two times. The first time, it took 18 minutes and 24 seconds (SD) This time I really struggled and it was over a simple mistake. For whatever reason when I was trying to organize the browsers into three columns, two of the browsers were in the middle and one of the text wouldn’t wrap which got me confused as to what I was doing wrong. But upon inspecting my code for 5 minutes, I realized that for my Firefox browser, the div class=’right’ was spelled incorrectly. As a result, the text didn’t wrap and firefox was in the middle. So, remember to always check your spelling. One careless mistake can leave you wondering what you did wrong for a long time until you have that aha moment. Because I was so angry about that, I retried the WOD again and clocked in at 10 minutes 45 seconds (AV). In the end, it made me feel accomplished and I didn’t even have to look at the screencast the second time around! Everything was already so ingrained to me the first time around since I remembered all that stress that it turned into me memorizing what to do.  

